README.md, before:

# Flyte 2 SDK 🚀

**The next-generation Python SDK for scalable, distributed workflows**

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/flyte?label=version&color=blue)](https://pypi.org/project/flyte/)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/flyte?color=brightgreen)](https://pypi.org/project/flyte/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-orange)](LICENSE)

> ⚡ **Pure Python workflows** • 🔄 **Async-first parallelism** • 🛠️ **Zero DSL constraints** • 📊 **Sub-task observability**

## 🌍 Ecosystem & Resources

- **📖 Documentation**: [Docs Link](https://www.union.ai/docs/v2/flyte/user-guide/)
- **▶️ Getting Started**: [Docs Link](https://www.union.ai/docs/v2/flyte/user-guide/getting-started/)
- **💬 Community**: [Slack](https://slack.flyte.org/) | [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/discussions)  
- **🎓 Examples**: [GitHub Examples](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte-sdk/tree/main/examples)
- **🐛 Issues**: [Bug Reports](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/issues)

## What is Flyte 2?

Flyte 2 represents a fundamental shift from constrained domain-specific languages to **pure Python workflows**. Write data pipelines, ML training jobs, and distributed compute exactly like you write Python—because it *is* Python.

```python
import flyte

env = flyte.TaskEnvironment("hello_world")

@env.task
async def process_data(data: list[str]) -> list[str]:
    # Use any Python construct: loops, conditionals, try/except
    results = []
    for item in data:
        if len(item) > 5:
            results.append(await transform_item(item))
    return results

@env.task
async def transform_item(item: str) -> str:
    return f"processed: {item.upper()}"

if __name__ == "__main__":
    flyte.init()
    result = flyte.run(process_data, data=["hello", "world", "flyte"])
```

## 🌟 Why Flyte 2?

| Feature Highlight | Flyte 1 | Flyte 2 |
|-| ------- | ------- |
| **No More Workflow DSL** | ❌ `@workflow` decorators with Python subset limitations | ✅ **Pure Python**: loops, conditionals, error handling, dynamic structures |
| **Async-First Parallelism** | ❌ Custom `map()` functions and workflow-specific parallel constructs | ✅ **Native `asyncio`**: `await asyncio.gather()` for distributed parallel execution |
| **Fine-Grained Observability** | ❌ Task-level logging only | ✅ **Function-level tracing** with `@flyte.trace` for sub-task checkpoints |

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Install uv package manager
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Create virtual environment
uv venv && source .venv/bin/activate

# Install Flyte 2 (beta)
uv pip install --prerelease=allow flyte
```

### Your First Workflow

```python
# hello.py
# /// script
# requires-python = ">=3.10"
# dependencies = ["flyte>=0.2.0"]
# ///

import flyte

env = flyte.TaskEnvironment(
    name="hello_world",
    resources=flyte.Resources(memory="250Mi")
)

@env.task
def calculate(x: int) -> int:
    return x * 2 + 5

@env.task
async def main(numbers: list[int]) -> float:
    # Parallel execution across distributed containers
    results = await asyncio.gather(*[
        calculate.aio(num) for num in numbers
    ])
    return sum(results) / len(results)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    flyte.init_from_config("config.yaml")
    run = flyte.run(main, numbers=list(range(10)))
    print(f"Result: {run.result}")
    print(f"View at: {run.url}")
```

```bash
# Run locally, execute remotely
uv run --prerelease=allow hello.py
```

## 🏗️ Core Concepts

### **TaskEnvironments**: Container Configuration Made Simple

```python
# Group tasks with shared configuration
env = flyte.TaskEnvironment(
    name="ml_pipeline",
    image=flyte.Image.from_debian_base().with_pip_packages(
        "torch", "pandas", "scikit-learn"
    ),
    resources=flyte.Resources(cpu=4, memory="8Gi", gpu=1),
    reusable=flyte.ReusePolicy(replicas=3, idle_ttl=300)
)

@env.task
def train_model(data: flyte.File) -> flyte.File:
    # Runs in configured container with GPU access
    pass

@env.task
def evaluate_model(model: flyte.File, test_data: flyte.File) -> dict:
    # Same container configuration, different instance
    pass
```

### **Pure Python Workflows**: No More DSL Constraints

```python
@env.task
async def dynamic_pipeline(config: dict) -> list[str]:
    results = []

    # ✅ Use any Python construct
    for dataset in config["datasets"]:
        try:
            # ✅ Native error handling
            if dataset["type"] == "batch":
                result = await process_batch(dataset)
            else:
                result = await process_stream(dataset)
            results.append(result)
        except ValidationError as e:
            # ✅ Custom error recovery
            result = await handle_error(dataset, e)
            results.append(result)

    return results
```

### **Async Parallelism**: Distributed by Default

```python
@env.task
async def parallel_training(hyperparams: list[dict]) -> dict:
    # Each model trains on separate infrastructure
    models = await asyncio.gather(*[
        train_model.aio(params) for params in hyperparams
    ])

    # Evaluate all models in parallel
    evaluations = await asyncio.gather(*[
        evaluate_model.aio(model) for model in models
    ])

    # Find best model
    best_idx = max(range(len(evaluations)),
                   key=lambda i: evaluations[i]["accuracy"])
    return {"best_model": models[best_idx], "accuracy": evaluations[best_idx]}
```

## 🎯 Advanced Features

### **Sub-Task Observability with Tracing**

```python
@flyte.trace
async def expensive_computation(data: str) -> str:
    # Function-level checkpointing - recoverable on failure
    result = await call_external_api(data)
    return process_result(result)

@env.task(cache=flyte.Cache(behavior="auto"))
async def main_task(inputs: list[str]) -> list[str]:
    results = []
    for inp in inputs:
        # If task fails here, it resumes from the last successful trace
        result = await expensive_computation(inp)
        results.append(result)
    return results
```

### **Remote Task Execution**

```python
import flyte.remote

# Reference tasks deployed elsewhere
torch_task = flyte.remote.Task.get("torch_env.train_model", auto_version="latest")
spark_task = flyte.remote.Task.get("spark_env.process_data", auto_version="latest")

@env.task
async def orchestrator(raw_data: flyte.File) -> flyte.File:
    # Execute Spark job on big data cluster
    processed = await spark_task(raw_data)

    # Execute PyTorch training on GPU cluster
    model = await torch_task(processed)

    return model
```

## 📊 Native Jupyter Integration

Run and monitor workflows directly from notebooks:

```python
# In Jupyter cell
import flyte

flyte.init_from_config()
run = flyte.run(my_workflow, data=large_dataset)

# Stream logs in real-time
run.logs.stream()

# Get outputs when complete
results = run.wait()
```

## 🔧 Configuration & Deployment

### Configuration File

```yaml
# config.yaml
endpoint: https://my-flyte-instance.com
project: ml-team
domain: production
image:
  builder: local
  registry: ghcr.io/my-org
auth:
  type: oauth2
```

### Deploy and Run

```bash
# Deploy tasks to remote cluster
flyte deploy my_workflow.py

# Run deployed workflow
flyte run my_workflow --input-file params.json

# Monitor execution
flyte logs <execution-id>
```

## Migration from Flyte 1

| Flyte 1 | Flyte 2 |
|---------|---------|
| `@workflow` + `@task` | `@env.task` only |
| `flytekit.map()` | `await asyncio.gather()` |
| `@dynamic` workflows | Regular `@env.task` with loops |
| `flytekit.conditional()` | Python `if/else` |
| `LaunchPlan` schedules | `@env.task(on_schedule=...)` |
| Workflow failure handlers | Python `try/except` |

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Whether it's:

- 🐛 **Bug fixes**
- ✨ **New features**
- 📚 **Documentation improvements**
- 🧪 **Testing enhancements**

## 📄 License

Flyte 2 is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Readme setup (#13)
Signed-off-by: Yee Hing Tong <wild-endeavor@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Flyte 2 SDK 🚀

**The next-generation Python SDK for scalable, distributed workflows**

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/flyte?label=version&color=blue)](https://pypi.org/project/flyte/)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/flyte?color=brightgreen)](https://pypi.org/project/flyte/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-orange)](LICENSE)

> ⚡ **Pure Python workflows** • 🔄 **Async-first parallelism** • 🛠️ **Zero DSL constraints** • 📊 **Sub-task observability**

## 🌍 Ecosystem & Resources

- **📖 Documentation**: [Docs Link](https://www.union.ai/docs/v2/flyte/user-guide/)
- **▶️ Getting Started**: [Docs Link](https://www.union.ai/docs/v2/flyte/user-guide/getting-started/)
- **💬 Community**: [Slack](https://slack.flyte.org/) | [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/discussions)  
- **🎓 Examples**: [GitHub Examples](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte-sdk/tree/main/examples)
- **🐛 Issues**: [Bug Reports](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/issues)

## What is Flyte 2?

Flyte 2 represents a fundamental shift from constrained domain-specific languages to **pure Python workflows**. Write data pipelines, ML training jobs, and distributed compute exactly like you write Python—because it *is* Python.

```python
import flyte

env = flyte.TaskEnvironment("hello_world")

@env.task
async def process_data(data: list[str]) -> list[str]:
    # Use any Python construct: loops, conditionals, try/except
    results = []
    for item in data:
        if len(item) > 5:
            results.append(await transform_item(item))
    return results

@env.task
async def transform_item(item: str) -> str:
    return f"processed: {item.upper()}"

if __name__ == "__main__":
    flyte.init()
    result = flyte.run(process_data, data=["hello", "world", "flyte"])
```

## 🌟 Why Flyte 2?

| Feature Highlight | Flyte 1 | Flyte 2 |
|-| ------- | ------- |
| **No More Workflow DSL** | ❌ `@workflow` decorators with Python subset limitations | ✅ **Pure Python**: loops, conditionals, error handling, dynamic structures |
| **Async-First Parallelism** | ❌ Custom `map()` functions and workflow-specific parallel constructs | ✅ **Native `asyncio`**: `await asyncio.gather()` for distributed parallel execution |
| **Fine-Grained Observability** | ❌ Task-level logging only | ✅ **Function-level tracing** with `@flyte.trace` for sub-task checkpoints |

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Install uv package manager
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Create virtual environment
uv venv && source .venv/bin/activate

# Install Flyte 2 (beta)
uv pip install --prerelease=allow flyte
```

### Your First Workflow

```python
# hello.py
# /// script
# requires-python = ">=3.10"
# dependencies = ["flyte>=2.0.0b0"]
# ///

import flyte

env = flyte.TaskEnvironment(
    name="hello_world",
    resources=flyte.Resources(memory="250Mi")
)

@env.task
def calculate(x: int) -> int:
    return x * 2 + 5

@env.task
async def main(numbers: list[int]) -> float:
    # Parallel execution across distributed containers
    results = await asyncio.gather(*[
        calculate.aio(num) for num in numbers
    ])
    return sum(results) / len(results)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    flyte.init_from_config("config.yaml")
    run = flyte.run(main, numbers=list(range(10)))
    print(f"Result: {run.result}")
    print(f"View at: {run.url}")
```

```bash
# Run locally, execute remotely
uv run --prerelease=allow hello.py
```

## 🏗️ Core Concepts

### **TaskEnvironments**: Container Configuration Made Simple

```python
# Group tasks with shared configuration
env = flyte.TaskEnvironment(
    name="ml_pipeline",
    image=flyte.Image.from_debian_base().with_pip_packages(
        "torch", "pandas", "scikit-learn"
    ),
    resources=flyte.Resources(cpu=4, memory="8Gi", gpu=1),
    reusable=flyte.ReusePolicy(replicas=3, idle_ttl=300)
)

@env.task
def train_model(data: flyte.File) -> flyte.File:
    # Runs in configured container with GPU access
    pass

@env.task
def evaluate_model(model: flyte.File, test_data: flyte.File) -> dict:
    # Same container configuration, different instance
    pass
```

### **Pure Python Workflows**: No More DSL Constraints

```python
@env.task
async def dynamic_pipeline(config: dict) -> list[str]:
    results = []

    # ✅ Use any Python construct
    for dataset in config["datasets"]:
        try:
            # ✅ Native error handling
            if dataset["type"] == "batch":
                result = await process_batch(dataset)
            else:
                result = await process_stream(dataset)
            results.append(result)
        except ValidationError as e:
            # ✅ Custom error recovery
            result = await handle_error(dataset, e)
            results.append(result)

    return results
```

### **Async Parallelism**: Distributed by Default

```python
@env.task
async def parallel_training(hyperparams: list[dict]) -> dict:
    # Each model trains on separate infrastructure
    models = await asyncio.gather(*[
        train_model.aio(params) for params in hyperparams
    ])

    # Evaluate all models in parallel
    evaluations = await asyncio.gather(*[
        evaluate_model.aio(model) for model in models
    ])

    # Find best model
    best_idx = max(range(len(evaluations)),
                   key=lambda i: evaluations[i]["accuracy"])
    return {"best_model": models[best_idx], "accuracy": evaluations[best_idx]}
```

## 🎯 Advanced Features

### **Sub-Task Observability with Tracing**

```python
@flyte.trace
async def expensive_computation(data: str) -> str:
    # Function-level checkpointing - recoverable on failure
    result = await call_external_api(data)
    return process_result(result)

@env.task(cache=flyte.Cache(behavior="auto"))
async def main_task(inputs: list[str]) -> list[str]:
    results = []
    for inp in inputs:
        # If task fails here, it resumes from the last successful trace
        result = await expensive_computation(inp)
        results.append(result)
    return results
```

### **Remote Task Execution**

```python
import flyte.remote

# Reference tasks deployed elsewhere
torch_task = flyte.remote.Task.get("torch_env.train_model", auto_version="latest")
spark_task = flyte.remote.Task.get("spark_env.process_data", auto_version="latest")

@env.task
async def orchestrator(raw_data: flyte.File) -> flyte.File:
    # Execute Spark job on big data cluster
    processed = await spark_task(raw_data)

    # Execute PyTorch training on GPU cluster
    model = await torch_task(processed)

    return model
```

## 📊 Native Jupyter Integration

Run and monitor workflows directly from notebooks:

```python
# In Jupyter cell
import flyte

flyte.init_from_config()
run = flyte.run(my_workflow, data=large_dataset)

# Stream logs in real-time
run.logs.stream()

# Get outputs when complete
results = run.wait()
```

## 🔧 Configuration & Deployment

### Configuration File

```yaml
# config.yaml
endpoint: https://my-flyte-instance.com
project: ml-team
domain: production
image:
  builder: local
  registry: ghcr.io/my-org
auth:
  type: oauth2
```

### Deploy and Run

```bash
# Deploy tasks to remote cluster
flyte deploy my_workflow.py

# Run deployed workflow
flyte run my_workflow --input-file params.json

# Monitor execution
flyte logs <execution-id>
```

## Migration from Flyte 1

| Flyte 1 | Flyte 2 |
|---------|---------|
| `@workflow` + `@task` | `@env.task` only |
| `flytekit.map()` | `await asyncio.gather()` |
| `@dynamic` workflows | Regular `@env.task` with loops |
| `flytekit.conditional()` | Python `if/else` |
| `LaunchPlan` schedules | `@env.task(on_schedule=...)` |
| Workflow failure handlers | Python `try/except` |

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Whether it's:

- 🐛 **Bug fixes**
- ✨ **New features**
- 📚 **Documentation improvements**
- 🧪 **Testing enhancements**

### Setup & Iteration Cycle
To get started, make sure you start from a new virtual environment and install this package in editable mode with any of the supported Python versions, from 3.10 to 3.13.

```bash
uv venv --python 3.13
uv pip install -e .
```

Besides from picking up local code changes, installing the package in editable mode
also changes the definition of the default `Image()` object to use a locally
build wheel. You will need to build said wheel by yourself though, with the `make dist` target.

```bash
make dist
python maint_tools/build_default_image.py
```
You'll need to have a local docker daemon running for this. The build script does nothing
more than invoke the local image builder, which will create a buildx builder named `flytex` if not present. Note that only members of the `Flyte Maintainers` group has
access to push to the default registry. If you don't have access, please make sure to
specify the registry and name to the build script.

```bash
python maint_tools/build_default_image.py --registry ghcr.io/my-org --name my-flyte-image
```

## 📄 License

Flyte 2 is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE).
